We have updated awsbites.com and added transcripts to every single episode.
We don't have a massive number of episodes yet, but we're proud to have published 62 episodes so far.
So it's no small amount of audio to transcribe.
So how did we go about doing all this work and how are we going to be able to keep doing this consistently in the future?
Well, there's a simple answer. Automation and AI.
For the longer and more elaborate answer, you'll have to stick around until the end of this episode.
We'll tell you how to build your own transcription automation pipeline and we'll also share all of the code for our solution.
My name is Eoin, I'm with Luciano and this is the AWS Bites podcast.
AWS Bites is sponsored by fourTheorem.
fourTheorem is an AWS consulting partner offering training, cloud migration and modern application architecture.
Find out more at fourtheorem.com You'll find the link in the show notes.
Since this is the first episode of 2023, happy new year to everyone.
We're glad to be back publishing new episodes after the break.
So back to transcripts for this podcast.
Luciano, can you start maybe by giving a quick recap of what the actual need is?
What problem are we solving?
Of course. So yeah, this is a podcast and basically in every episode we talk a lot.
We say a lot of nonsense. Sometimes we say also something interesting, at least I hope.
And of course it would be great if we could provide together with the videos
and the audio files also proper transcripts.
And that would be nice if we can do that consistently for every single episode.
When the episode comes out it is also available in a text format basically.
So people who prefer to read this conversation rather than just consuming the video or the audio format,
they can just simply use that transcript as a way to consume the information we are trying to share.
Also transcripts are very useful because they can be used for search engine optimization
we embedded them in our own website with the hope that that contributes
to make our content more discoverable because on the web we provide a better description for
the kind of content we are producing. And in general transcripts can also help people
even just watching the video or listening to the audio to easily find exactly what is the place
where we were talking about a specific concept. Maybe they are listening to an episode again
because there is something they want to refresh so maybe they remember that we talk somewhere
about Step Functions they can easily search in the transcript just to exactly figure out at
which point we start to talk about that particular topic. So definitely there is value in creating
all these transcripts. But yeah the main question is how did we do that? How can we generate
transcripts in general? What did we do?
Yeah this is something we've looked at a few times in the past and never found any ideal option until very recently. So some of the options are like doing
it manually hiring somebody who's professional at this. The other one is grabbing the closed
captions that are automatically generated by YouTube because all our episodes are already
on YouTube or we can generate them in another way. So having someone do it manually like having a
professional individual like a freelancer or a company who specializes in this is appealing
because it leads to really high quality results by people who do this all the time.
The disadvantage really the main hurdle is that it takes time to find somebody who's reliable enough
and build a relationship with them and set up that whole process. It can also be expensive
depending on your budget and then you have communication back and forth that can introduce
a delay every time you need to publish an episode. So overall because it adds to the lead time it's
something we were pretty reluctant to do. Regarding YouTube closed captions, we could have done this
pretty I suppose integrated this into our workflow after we publish a new video on YouTube we could
wait for some time for YouTube to generate those closed captions and then try and integrate some
code to download them and integrate them into the build process. That seems like a decent enough
solution but there's two major problems with it. Number one, the quality of the transcripts isn't
that great it lacks kind of punctuation and grammar and sentences and that sort of stuff.
Additionally, the YouTube transcripts don't identify different speakers so if you just
converted it into a blog a wall of text it would be literally that just a wall of kind of stream
of consciousness text without any punctuation or identification of speakers. So the last
solution left is to kind of generate the transcripts ourselves somehow and since this is
an AWS podcast it's to be expected that we would use something like Amazon Transcribe which is AWS's
managed service to perform speech to text. So you give it an audio file and it gives you back text
and we like the simplicity of that we're always advocating for using managed services
you can use the Transcribe SDK or the API to generate the transcription in a programmatic way.
With a transcribed client, you call the start transcription API and provide reference to
an audio file and an output prefix and it will generate that as a JSON file it can also generate
subtitles formats like SRT and WebVTT. So it runs in batch mode it can also do real-time
transcriptions but we would be using batch mode for this since it's kind of for on-demand content
and you can get notified with EventBridge when it's finished. Luciano, do you want to talk about
what the pros and cons of Transcribe are and like why we ultimately ended up kind of using it but
not entirely?
Yeah of course so Transcribe is quite good because it gives us that feature that we really liked and we we felt it was missing on YouTube which is basically you get different
speakers you get a label that tells you this person is starting to talk another person is
starting to talk from this point so we can retain in a text format that feeling that this is just
not a wall of text but it's an actual conversation between multiple people. Unfortunately actually
there is another one good thing that you can customize it so you can add custom models and
vocabularies to fine-tune the results so if you have a very specific domain you can basically put
more work into it and get more accurate results but in general we were not satisfied with the
level of quality. It is not that bad I think it's still quite a good tool so you can use it for most
things but for the kind of scope that we had in mind we feel that good and perfect are very
noticeable points like we were aiming for the 99% good while transcribed maybe around the 97%
good and we feel that that 2% of a difference is actually quite noticeable when you are reading
some text and you expect it to be higher quality. So we were looking for something that could be a
little bit better so that basically led us to explore other avenues. And pretty much during the
same time where we were looking for an alternative, there was a blog announcement by OpenAI that
introduced this new tool called Whisper which is effectively another tool to do text-to-speech so
to try to recognize speech and convert it to text. So this came around
last September I think and we are going to be linking the announcement blog post in the show notes.
It's the same group of people that created ChatGPT and DALL-E so you probably heard of them
because right now their products are all the rage and Whisper is probably the least known of these
three but nonetheless it's a very interesting product. And we were really excited to try it
so we quickly spin it up and tested it and we were definitely blown away by the level of accuracy.
So we immediately thought okay we want to use this because this is giving us the level of quality
that we want to provide in the end and if we can automate all of that process this is going to be
something that we can keep doing very easily without too much overhead in our existing process.
Still, it wasn't perfect unfortunately there were a few small problems one is that it did not
distinguish between speakers. So on one side we're getting more accuracy but again we are losing that
ability to distinguish the speakers and the other thing is that it's not built in in AWS as a managed
offering so if we were to productionize so to speak this solution in AWS, we'll need to figure
out exactly how do we take the model and run it in AWS. So Eoin, do you want to detail our solution in the end?
Yeah exactly, so we wanted to get the best of both worlds right so we have OpenAI Whisper which is this fantastic model that you can run it's basically they deliver it as a container
that you can run and as a very nice user-friendly developer friendly interface where you just give
it an audio file and it gives you the transcript. It might be worth mentioning that can also do
translations as well so if you want to transcribe but also generate Italian text or even transcribe
from different languages into English this is something that's really good at too. We did run
it standalone. It comes in different sizes so you have it depending on your compute resources
available to you you can run the tiny model, small model, the medium model or the large model but if
you want to use anything and get a result within a reasonable period of time like even less than 30
minutes you probably need a GPU so that's something that's worth bearing in mind with OpenAI. So our
solution - what we wanted to do was use the accuracy of the OpenAI Whisper transcript but take the
speaker labels from the Amazon Transcribe output output so that we'd have an accurate labeled time
linked transcript and merge the results and end up with a JSON file that we could use to generate
a transcript for the website with sections that say this is what Eoin said this is what Luciano
said and make it readable for people almost like a blog post, right? So we built this using Step Functions.
It's using SageMaker so that we can run that Whisper model with the GPU and it's also using
Lambda for lots of little transformation efforts like if the input audio file isn't an MP3 we
convert it to MP3 because Transcribe - it's one of the formats it supports and sometimes we're using
M4A audio and Transcribe doesn't natively support that. So, how do we do this? How do we even kick off
this process? Well, after we finish recording an episode of AWS Bites we do a bit of editing we
create a video and we create an audio file. That audio file gets pushed up to Anchor which
distributes the podcast to all the podcast channels but we also take that audio now and we
copy it into an S3 bucket and that kicks off a whole automated process with this step function.
We of course we had the previous 61 episodes or so to consider so we also had to do a backfilling
process so we pulled down the RSS feed and kicked off this process for each of the 61 previous
episodes by copying that audio up to S3. Interestingly, I suppose it's worth mentioning
that you know there is a cost associated and probably a lot of people will be wondering what
is the cost to run this because we have to run SageMaker with a GPU we also have to use Transcribe
both of those things can be expensive if you use them at scale we talked about that in our previous
episode on AI services.  We did work this out I can't recall exactly the channel was around
it was definitely less than a dollar per episode for the whole process to run so it's not too
ominous compared to other alternatives at all I would say. So is it worthwhile talking about some
of the orchestration here? How does it all fit together? We mentioned we have Step Functions
right. So we pre-process the input if needed with FFmpeg, we trigger the two transcription jobs at
the same time so the Transcribe job and the SageMaker job transcribe means we have to use
the AWS SDK within step functions and then kind of poll until it's complete. With SageMaker we've
got like a more native integration with Step Functions where we could just say run this batch
transform job that'll kick off a docker container in the background with the right um compute
resources it will pass our input audio into it it can run a batch of jobs the way we set it up
we generally just do one transcription at a time because we're only doing one a week and when we
get both results then Step Functions will allow us to take both of those inputs and kick off a
Lambda to process the results. So that's like essentially taking these two sets.
Both systems will give you a set of segments with start times and end times one of them has speaker labels
so we have to do this run this algorithm essentially to merge the two what else is there
to mention in this process. What other bells and whistles do we have?
There are some additional things that we do to try to to get a little bit higher quality with our final result, so for
instance we noticed very common mistakes. For some reason, Whisper doesn't like our names
like it was getting my name wrong a few times it was mostly getting your name correctly, Eoin, but
spelled in a different way I think that is that I just yeah just too many ways so it was interesting
that it was getting correctly but just the spelling of course yeah you need to guess which
which spelling is the right one so we basically figured it out there are also some other cases
where for instance name of services in AWS sometimes would be consistently wrong or some
small things like that so basically, by reviewing the first results we created a dictionary
and we pass the output and apply what substitution wherever we see these common errors and we apply
the correction so all of that is somewhat automated and we can keep improving our dictionary
as we find more issues like that. Then, the other thing is that at the end of the day our website
is the place where we want to output this result in a way that is visible to people and
they can consume it so we need somehow to hook this entire project into the process that builds
our website and our website is also open source. We'll put the link in the show notes. It is a static
website built with Eleventy so what we do is basically every week every time there is a new episode we
trigger a new build and that will generate a new version of the entire website, all the html pages
, assets and so on and publish that online on a CDN. So what we wanted to do is somehow integrate
this process to be able to hook into our website build process and we thought that it would be very
nice if the Step Function could just do a PR just trying to send the generated file directly into
the repository for our website so we did all of that with an additional Lambda at the end of the
process so you might be wondering at this point did we manage to fully automate everything and
I will say unfortunately not entirely yes but I think we are close enough. We definitely reduced
all the manual work to the bare minimum and but what's left to do. What we still need to do
manually or at least we want to do manually to retain a decent level of quality there so this is
also the reason why we we do a PR because first of all it gives us an opportunity to review the
result of our transcript before it gets merged and the other interesting thing is that the PR
effectively is just publishing trying to publish a JSON file in our website repository. This JSON file
is not ready to go straight away because the speaker identification is just telling us something
like speaker 0 and speaker 1 is not able to tell we which one is which depending on the voice is
just distinguishing between between two different people so we need to quickly look up who is the
first person to talk and just assign the name to to the right label. So this is something we can
easily do manually directly from the GitHub UI by editing the PR and in the process, we also quickly
review, we just eyeball the entire text and if we spot any other obvious mistake we can easily fix
it manually before merging the PR. So I think that describes more or less the process and what do we
do in an automated fashion and what we still do manually. What else do we want to share?
Yeah I think just to summarize I think this has really been a step forward in the transcription
technology and I'm really happy with the level of automation we now have I think it's just the
right balance between manual effort and automation it's great that you can now use AI and be really
confident that you've got a result that people can read without finding it kind of jarring or
distracting to read. Some of the things that it really surprised me with OpenAI Whisper is
how you mentioned, like, product names and AWS service names it seems to just know what they
are and get them right most of the time some of the things where it's less accurate is just things
that are hard to predict. Like, AWS Bites isn't exactly a top international brand yet so sometimes
it would spell it with b y t e s instead of b i t e s so there are some things where you'll always
have to do those vocabulary substitutions you mentioned but overall I think this is just mostly
mostly hands off and you end up with a really good result for very little cost. So if this is
something you want to do for your own podcast, the good news is that everything we just told you
about is open source so you can find a repo on GitHub. It's called PodWhisperer as a tribute
to OpenAI Whisper because this is primarily aimed at podcasts but of course you can use this for
transcribing meetings any other kind of audio you could think of. You can follow the instructions in
the readme and deploy this into your own AWS account so feel free to contribute back to the
project if you think there's something missing, improvements you'd like to make, something you'd
like to change and we'd really love to hear from you. And we'd gratefully appreciate the chance to
grow this and spread it around even further. This is all we have for this episode. We hope you liked
it and we look forward to hearing your feedback on our transcripts. By the way, if you happen to
find a mistake in one of our transcripts you can easily submit a PR like Luciano said. The link
will be in the show notes to the AWS Bites static website repo. It will help us fix the issue and
improve the quality of what we're doing. It's really nice to have everybody contributing to
the podcast. We're really enjoying that so far so thank you and we'll see you in the next episode.